= 1. The Pomodoro Method =
== What is the Pomodoro Method? ==
* The Pomodoro Method is a way to structure work time.
 - It involves structuring time into pomodoros, where you work for a fixed amount of time before taking a short, < 5 minute break.
 - After completing a certain number of pomodoros, you take a longer break to allow your mind to relax before continuing work.
* It was created by Francesco Cirillo in the late 1980's using a tomato kitchen timer.
* For more information, visit https://www.pomodorotechnique.com/
== Using the Pomodoro Method ==
* Before starting the pomodoro, decide on a task to focus on.
* During the study segment, give the task your undivided attention.
 - Try to avoid interruptions unless urgent. If it is urgent but doesn't need immediate attention, write it down and do it during the next pomodoro.
   - If it does need immediate attention, skip to the end of the study segment, and take your short break if possible before starting it in the next pomodoro.
* During the short breaks between study segments, step away from the work and do something to give your brain a break from the main task.
 - For example, you could use the time to walk around, get water and/or coffee, or just to stand up and stretch.
* During the longer breaks, do something simple or relaxing to let your brain rest.
 - For example, you could use the time to take a longer walk, tidy up your workspace, or to read part of a book.
* For more information, visit the source of these tips: https://guides.libraries.emory.edu/c.php?g=1365627&p=10088719

= 2. Using the Application =
* When started, the application will appear in the system tray.
 - The icon will be updated when moving between segments and as each segment progresses.
 - Hovering over the icon will give the current segment and its remaining time, as well as the current pomodoro and cycle.
 - Right-clicking on the icon will bring up a menu allowing you to quickly
	- pause or unpause the timer
	- Skip or restart a segment
	- Reset the entire session
	- Load a preset
	- Exit the application.
 - Left-Clicking on it will show the main application window
* The main window displays a pause button alongside the timer's state.
 - It also contains several menus.
  - Timer Menu: Allows the user to pause or unpause the timer, skip the current pomodoro, or edit the timer's configuration.
	- Preset Menu: Allows for creating, loading, renaming, removing, editing, or setting a preset as the default configuration.
	- Window: Lets the user hide the main window, open this help, or exit the application.

= 2. Configuring the Timer =
* The timer's segments and notifications can be reconfigured by going to Timer->Edit Timer.. in the main window.
== Segment Editor ==
* Each portion of the timer can be edited here, including...
 1. The Length of the Study and both Break Segments
 2. The number of pomodoros to a cycle
 3. How many cycles to do before stopping the timer.
  - The timer can also be configured to run indefinitly.
 4. The title and contents of notifications sent when changing to a new segment.
* Updated segment lengths will not be applied until the next time that segment is started.

== Notification Editor Syntax ==
* The following text, when inserted into the title or body of a notification, will be replaced by the values noted below in the actual notification text.
 - NOTE: For the segment lengths, /(letter) denotes the unit of time that the number will be displayed in.
  - The brackets denote that this is optional, and the length will be displayed in minutes without it.
 1. Current Pomodoro Rep: <current_pomodoro>
 2. Pomodoros per Cycle: <pomodoros_per_cycle>
 3. Current Cycle: <current_cycle>
 4. Cycles per Session: <cycles_per_session>
  - If the cycle limit is disabled, '∞' will be displayed.
 5. Length of Study Segment: <len_study[/s,/m,/h]>
 6. Length of Short Break: <len_break_s[/s,/m,/h]>
 7. Length of Longer Break: <len_break_l[/s,/m,/h]>

= 3. Timer Presets =
* A custom timer configuration can be saved to a preset which can be loaded for later use.
== Preset Management ==
 - Each preset must have a unique name. 
  - If trying to duplicate a name, a prompt is displayed to overwrite it or cancel the operation.
 - Presets can be made based on the timer's current settings, any other preset, or from scratch with factory default settings.
 - A Preset can be copied to the default preset, but any changes made to one will not be reflected in the other.
* The users presets are stored in the programs configuration folder.
 - On Windows, this is "C:/Users/<USER>/AppData/Local/<APPNAME>"
 - On MacOS, this is "~/Library/Preferences/<APPNAME>"
 - On Linux, this is "~/.config/<APPNAME>"
 - The default preset is stored in default.json, and the other presets are stored in presets.json.

= Credits =
== Pomodoro Method Information Sources ==
* Pomodoro Method
 - Created by Francesco Cirillo
 - Website: https://www.pomodorotechnique.com/
* Pomodoro Method Tips
 - Source: Wellness Resources from MacMillan Law Library 
 - Website: https://guides.libraries.emory.edu/c.php?g=1365627&p=10088719

== Icons ==
* Breaktime Icon: SammyD92002
* Studying Icon: [[https://www.vecteezy.com/free-vector/book-icon|Book Icon Vectors by Vecteezy]] 

== References ==
* Help Browser: The qt6 contextsensitivehelp example was heavily referenced, and the overridden loadResource function was directly sourced from it.
 - [[https://code.qt.io/cgit/qt/qttools.git/tree/examples/help/contextsensitivehelp?h=6.7|contextsensitivehelp]] 
* The Main qt6 Documentation was also heavily referenced, and is available [[https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/|here]]

== External Libraries ==
* [[https://github.com/qt|Qt Framework]] - Version Used: 6.7.2
